# Introduction - Nest Js

- Nest (NestJS) is a node.js framework.

- It fully support TypeScript (yet still enables developers to code in pure JavaScript).

- Nest also use Http server framework like express and fastify (optionally can be configured)

- Nest provides an out-of-the-box application architecture which allows developers and teams to create highly testable, scalable, loosely coupled, and easily maintainable applications.

- The architecture is heavily inspired by Angular.

---

## First Step

### **Prerequisites**

- Please make sure that `Node.js` (version >= 12, except for v13) is installed on your operating system.

### **Installation**

Please use below command to `install` and `create new project` of `folder structure` in local machine.

```bash
npm i -g @nestjs/cli

nest new project-name
```

> **Note:** To create a new project with TypeScript's `strict` mode enabled, pass the `--strict` flag to the nest new command.

The `project-name` directory will be created, node modules and a few other boilerplate files will be installed, and a `src/` directory will be created and populated with several core files.

```

src
├── app.controller.spec.ts
├── app.controller.ts
├── app.module.ts
├── app.service.ts
└──main.ts

```

Here's a breif overview of these files:

- `app.controller.ts` - A basic controller with a single route.

- `app.controller.spec.ts` - Unit test for the controller.

- `app.module.ts` - The main module for the application.

- `app.service.ts` - A basic service with a single method.

- `main.ts` - The entry file of the application which uses the core function `NestFactory` to create a Nest application instance.
