# NestJs | main.ts

The `main.ts` includes an async function, which will bootstrap our application:

```ts
import { NestFactory } from '@nestjs/core';
import { AppModule } from './app.module';

async function bootstrap() {
  const app = await NestFactory.create(AppModule);
  await app.listen(3000);
}
bootstrap();
```

Now lets discuss each element of the above code.

- To create nest application we use the core `NestFactory` class.
- The `create()` method of `NestFactory` returns an application object, which fulfills the `INestApplication` interface.

- Here in above example,
  we simply start up our HTTP listener, which lets the application await inbound HTTP requests.

> **Note:** By default, if any error happens while creating the application your app will exit with the code `1`. If you want to make it throw an error instead disable the option `abortOnError` (e.g., `NestFactory.create(AppModule, { abortOnError: false })`).

## Platforms

- Nest aims to be a platform-agnostic framework.

- Platform independence makes it possible to create reusable logical parts that developers can take advantage of across several different types of applications.

- Technically, Nest is able to work with any Node HTTP framework once an adapter is created.

- There are two HTTP platforms supported out-of-the-box: `express` and `fastify`.

You can choose the one that best suits your needs.

- `Express` is a well-known minimalist web framework for node. It's a battle tested, production-ready library with lots of resources implemented by the community. The `@nestjs/platform-express` package is used by default. Many users are well served with Express, and need take no action to enable it.

- `Fastify` is a high performance and low overhead framework highly focused on providing maximum efficiency and speed. Read how to use it [here](https://docs.nestjs.com/techniques/performance).

> **Note:** Whichever platform is used, it exposes its own application interface. These are seen respectively as `NestExpressApplication` and `NestFastifyApplication`.

---

## Running the application

Use following commands to run your application

```bash
npm run build
npm run start
```

> **Note:** To run the application in watch mode, use the `npm run start:dev` script.

```

```
